---
title: Access logs
description: How to access cluster log files
keywords: [redis, logs, access logs]
sidebar_position: 3
---

# Access logs

The KubeBlocks log enhancement function aims to simplify troubleshooting. With `kbcli`, the command line tool of KubeBlocks, you can view all kinds of logs generated by the database clusters running on KubeBlocks, such as slow logs, error logs, audit logs, and the container running logs (Stdout and Stderr). For Redis, only the running log is supported.

The KubeBlocks log enhancement function uses methods similar to kubectl exec and kubectl logs to ensure a self-closed loop and lightweight.

## Before you start

- The container image supports `tail` and `xargs` commands.
- KubeBlocks Operator is installed on the target Kubernetes cluster.

## Steps

1. Enable the log enhancement function.


   * Enable this function when creating a cluster.

     * If you create a cluster by running the `kbcli cluster create` command, add the `--enable-all-logs=true` option to enable the log enhancement function. When this option is `true`, all the log types defined by `spec.components.logConfigs` in `ClusterDefinition` are enabled automatically.

       ```bash
       kbcli cluster create redis-cluster --cluster-definition='redis' --enable-all-logs=true 
       ```

     * If you create a cluster by applying a YAML file, add the log type you need in `spec.components.enabledLogs`. As for Redis, running log is supported.

        ```YAML
        apiVersion: apps.kubeblocks.io/v1alpha1
        kind: Cluster
        metadata:
          name: redis-cluster
          namespace: default
        spec:
          clusterDefinitionRef: redis
          appVersionRef: redis-7.0.6
          componentSpecs:
          - name: replicasets
            type: replicasets
            enabledLogs:
              - running
        ```

    * Update this function if you do not enable it when creating a cluster.
       
       ```bash
       kbcli cluster update redis-cluster --enable-all-logs=true -n <namespace>
       ```
    
    :::note

    The default namespace in which a cluster is created is `default`. If you specify a namespace when creating a cluster, fill in `<namespace>` with your customized one.

    :::

2. View the supported logs.

   Run the `kbcli cluster list-logs` command to view the enabled log types of the target cluster and the log file details. INSTANCE of each node is displayed.

   ***Example***

   ```bash
   kbcli cluster list-logs redis-cluster
   >
   INSTANCE                LOG-TYPE   FILE-PATH           SIZE   LAST-WRITTEN                     COMPONENT
   redis-cluster-redis-0   running    /data/running.log   3.3K   Apr 12, 2023 11:34 (UTC+00:00)   redis      
   ```

3. Access the cluster log file.

   Run the `kbcli cluster logs <name>` command to view the details of the target log file generated by the target instance on the target cluster. You can use different options to view the log file details you need.
   You can also run `kbcli cluster logs -h` to see the examples and option descriptions.

   ```bash
   kbcli cluster logs -h
   ```

   <details>

   <summary>Output</summary>

    Access cluster log file.

    Examples:
      # Return snapshot logs from cluster mycluster with default primary instance (stdout)
      kbcli cluster logs mycluster

      # Display only the most recent 20 lines from cluster mycluster with default primary instance (stdout)
      kbcli cluster logs mycluster --tail=20

      # Display stdout info of specific instance my-instance-0 (cluster name comes from annotation app.kubernetes.io/instance)
      kbcli cluster logs --instance my-instance-0

      # Return snapshot logs from cluster mycluster with specific instance my-instance-0 (stdout)
      kbcli cluster logs mycluster --instance my-instance-0

      # Return snapshot logs from cluster mycluster with specific instance my-instance-0 and specific container
      # my-container (stdout)
      kbcli cluster logs mycluster --instance my-instance-0 -c my-container

      # Return slow logs from cluster mycluster with default primary instance
      kbcli cluster logs mycluster --file-type=slow

      # Begin streaming the slow logs from cluster mycluster with default primary instance
      kbcli cluster logs -f mycluster --file-type=slow

      # Return the specific file logs from cluster mycluster with specific instance my-instance-0
      kbcli cluster logs mycluster --instance my-instance-0 --file-path=/var/log/yum.log

      # Return the specific file logs from cluster mycluster with specific instance my-instance-0 and specific
      # container my-container
      kbcli cluster logs mycluster --instance my-instance-0 -c my-container --file-path=/var/log/yum.log

   </details>

4. (Optional) Troubleshooting.

     The log enhancement function does not affect the core process of KubeBlocks. If a configuration exception occurs, a warning shows to help troubleshoot.

     `warning` is recorded in the `event` and `status.Conditions` of the target database cluster.

     View `warning` information.
     - Run `kbcli cluster describe <cluster-name>` to view the status of the target cluster. You can also run `kbcli cluster list events <cluster-name>` to view the event information of the target cluster directly.

     - Run `kubectl describe cluster <cluster-name>` to view the warning.
  
     ***Example***

     ```
     Status:
       Cluster Def Generation:  3
       Components:
          Replicasets:
            Phase:  Running
       Conditions:
         Last Transition Time:  2022-11-11T03:57:42Z
         Message:               EnableLogs of cluster component replicasets has invalid value [errora slowa] which isn't defined in cluster definition component replicasets
         Reason:                EnableLogsListValidateFail
         Status:                False
         Type:                  ValidateEnabledLogs
       Observed Generation:     2
       Operations:
         Horizontal Scalable:
            Name:  replicasets
         Restartable:
           replicasets
         Vertical Scalable:
           replicasets
       Phase:  Running
     Events:
       Type     Reason                      Age   From                Message
       ----     ------                      ----  ----                -------
       Normal   Creating                    49s   cluster-controller  Start Creating in Cluster: release-name-error
       Warning  EnableLogsListValidateFail  49s   cluster-controller  EnableLogs of cluster component replicasets has invalid value [errora slowa] which isn't defined in cluster definition component replicasets
       Normal   Running                     36s   cluster-controller  Cluster: release-name-error is ready, current phase is Running
     ```
